Access Control: Rename fixed roles (#41288)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/access-control/permissions.md

| `org.users:add`                  | `users:*`                                                                                   | Add a user to an organization.                                                                                                                             |
| `org.users:remove`               | `users:*` <br> `users:id:*`                                                                 | Remove a user from an organization.                                                                                                                        |
| `org.users.role:update`          | `users:*` <br> `users:id:*`                                                                 | Update the organization role (`Viewer`, `Editor`, or `Admin`) of an organization.                                                                          |

> | `orgs:read`                      | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Read organization.                                                                                                                                         |
> | `orgs:write`                     | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Update organization.                                                                                                                                       |
> | `org:create`                     | n/a                                                                                         | Create organization.                                                                                                                                       |
> | `orgs:delete`                    | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Delete organization.                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `orgs:read`                      | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Read organization.                                                                                                                                         |
| `orgs:write`                     | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Update organization.                                                                                                                                       |
| `org:create`                     | n/a                                                                                         | Create organization.                                                                                                                                       |
| `orgs:delete`                    | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Delete organization.                                                                                                                                       |
```
I need articles in here: a/an/the.

| `orgs.quotas:read`               | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Read organization quotas.                                                                                                                                  |
| `orgs.quotas:write`              | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Update organization quotas.                                                                                                                                |
| `orgs.preferences:read`          | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Read organization preferences.                                                                                                                             |
| `orgs.preferences:write`         | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                                   | Update organization preferences.                                                                                                                           |

> | `ldap.user:read`                 | n/a                                                                                         | Get a user via LDAP.                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: Do we want to use `get` here, given we use `read` in the code? Consider using the same verb.

> | `server.stats:read`              | n/a                                                                                         | Read server stats                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.stats:read`              | n/a                                                                                         | Read server stats                                                                                                                                          |
```
This is supposed to be "instance statistics", right? Because this is also for Cloud, no?

| `licensing:update`               | n/a                                                                                         | Update the license token.                                                                                                                                  |
| `licensing:delete`               | n/a                                                                                         | Delete the license token.                                                                                                                                  |
| `licensing.reports:read`         | n/a                                                                                         | Get custom permission reports.                                                                                                                             |

> | `serviceaccounts:delete`         | `serviceaccounts:*` <br> `serviceaccounts:id:*`                                             | Delete service account.                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: a? the?

## Scope definitions

The following list contains fine-grained access control scopes.

| Scopes                                                                               | Descriptions                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `permissions:delegate`                                                               | The scope is only applicable for roles associated with the Access Control itself and indicates that you can delegate your permissions only, or a subset of it, by creating a new role or making an assignment.                   |

> | `roles:*` <br> `roles:uid:*`                                                         | Restrict an action to a set of roles. For example, `roles:*` matches any role, `roles:uid:randomuid` matches only the role with UID `randomuid`                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `roles:*` <br> `roles:uid:*`                                                         | Restrict an action to a set of roles. For example, `roles:*` matches any role and `roles:uid:randomuid` matches only the role whose UID is `randomuid`.                                                                                  |
```

> | `reports:*` <br> `reports:id:*`                                                      | Restrict an action to a set of reports. For example, `reports:*` matches any report and `reports:id:1` matches the report with id `1`.                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `reports:*` <br> `reports:id:*`                                                      | Restrict an action to a set of reports. For example, `reports:*` matches any report and `reports:id:1` matches the report whose ID is `1`.                                                                                           |
```

Reviewer: The report's ID is `1`, not that we are matching to some other `1`, oder?

| `services:accesscontrol`                                                             | Restrict an action to target only the fine-grained access control service. You can use this in conjunction with the `status:accesscontrol` actions.                                                                              |

> | `global:users:*` <br> `global:users:id:*`                                            | Restrict an action to a set of global users. For example, `global:users:*` matches any user and `global:users:id:1` matches user with id `1`.                                                                                    |
> | `users:*` <br> `users:id:*`                                                          | Restrict an action to a set of users from an organization. For example, `users:*` matches any user and `users:id:1` matches user with id `1`.                                                                                    |
> | `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                            | Restrict an action to a set of organizations. For example, `orgs:*` matches any organization and `orgs:id:1` matches the organization with id `1`.                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `global:users:*` <br> `global:users:id:*`                                            | Restrict an action to a set of global users. For example, `global:users:*` matches any user and `global:users:id:1` matches the user whose ID is `1`.                                                                                    |
| `users:*` <br> `users:id:*`                                                          | Restrict an action to a set of users from an organization. For example, `users:*` matches any user and `users:id:1` matches the user whose ID is `1`.                                                                                    |
| `orgs:*` <br> `orgs:id:*`                                                            | Restrict an action to a set of organizations. For example, `orgs:*` matches any organization and `orgs:id:1` matches the organization whose ID is `1`.                                                                               |
```

| `settings:*`                                                                         | Restrict an action to a subset of settings. For example, `settings:*` matches all settings, `settings:auth.saml:*` matches all SAML settings, and `settings:auth.saml:enabled` matches the enable property on the SAML settings. |
| `provisioners:*`                                                                     | Restrict an action to a set of provisioners. For example, `provisioners:*` matches any provisioner, and `provisioners:accesscontrol` matches the fine-grained access control [provisioner]({{< relref "./provisioning.md" >}}).  |
| `datasources:*`<br>`datasources:id:*`<br>`datasources:uid:*`<br>`datasources:name:*` | Restrict an action to a set of data sources. For example, `datasources:*` matches any data source, and `datasources:name:postgres` matches the data source named `postgres`.                                                     |

> | `serviceaccounts:*` <br> `serviceaccounts:id:*`                                      | Restrict an action to a set of service accounts. For example, `serviceaccounts:*` matches any service account, and `serviceaccounts:id:1` matches the service account with id `1`.                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `serviceaccounts:*` <br> `serviceaccounts:id:*`                                      | Restrict an action to a set of service accounts. For example, `serviceaccounts:*` matches any service account and `serviceaccounts:id:1` matches the service account whose ID is `1`.                                               |
```
